功能性需求：

（选择阶段）

需要提供算法类型选择功能
需要提供一些已有的样本数据供没有其它具体数据的用户选择
需要提供数据输入功能并且提示，检查用户输入文件的文件格式
需要提供带默认值的参数设置功能供用户更改

（输出阶段）
需要运行算法主程序，根据输入数据，算法类型和参数生成图像和数据
需要提供可修改参数列表以及各个参数的简单解释
需要在同一个结果图中显示前后两条曲线来进行对比

（修改比对阶段）
需要提供一个清除按钮来清除当前的输入数据和结果
需要提供重置按钮，在程序崩溃时重启程序
需要提供帮助文档来演示软件如何使用以及解释算法
需要提供输出功能，根据用户选择输出图像，数据或两者


（长期需求）
需要提供检查更新功能来检查并更新当前的软件版本
需要提供一个置顶按钮来使程序窗口浮动于屏幕最上层
需要提供开发者的联系方式便于用户联系开发者


非功能性需求：

（用户界面）
需要合适的窗口大小来展示算法演算过程
需要用户友好型的的操作界面让用户简单明确地选择或更改算法类型，数据和参数
需要在短时间内得到经过算法演算后的图像和数据

（兼容性和稳定性）
需要在程序因某些原因导致崩溃时重启程序
需要运行于多种平台和操作系统

（使用成本和开发成本）
需要便于版本更新与功能迭代，便于完善程序功能性
需要合适的软件容量，便于用户在短时间内下载和使用
需要较低的开发成本，便于作为免费软件进行推广

Requirement:
	The software is a free education-assisting software and it is mainly used by college students and teachers. In order to meet the needs of users and provide good user experience, this software should satisfy a large number of significant requirements. In next parts, there are two types of requirements and each specific requirement will be analyzed and explained in details.

Functional requirements:
1.	There should be some way to illustrate how to use this software and explain the principle of algorithm.
2.	The software should provide the function of selecting different algorithms.
3.	For users with no other specific data, the software should provide some existing sample data to them and the function of modifying parameter which is set as default value.
4.	The software need the function of prompting and checking the format of the file when users import specific sample data.
5.	The software should use the algorithm which is chosen by user to deal with the import sample data and generate the outcome image.
6.	The software should provide modifiable parameter list and some simple explanations of each parameter.
7.	The software should provide the output function to export images, data, or both according to the user's choice.
8.	The software should permit user to combine two images together to compare the differences between them.
9.	The software should provide the function of clearing the current data and results if users want to import another sample data.
10.	The software should provide a function of putting the software window into the top. 
11.	When the software crashes for some reason, there should be some way to restart it. 
12.	The software need some function of checking update and submitting bugs by users.

Non-functional requirements:
1.	The window size of the software should be suitable for demonstration
2.	The user interface should be convenient for user activity.
3.	The running time of using the algorithm to deal with the sample data should be as quick as possible. 
4.	The software needs to run on major platforms and operating systems.
5.	The software should be convenient for update and improvement.
6.	The software require appropriate software capacity to be convenient for users download and use in a short period of time.
7.	The software is free, it is better that the development and maintenance costs should be properly reduced.
